.TH CREW 1 "January 2026" "coldbrew 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crew \- Homebrew-compatible package manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crew
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " [COMMAND]"
.br
.B crew
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " help " [COMMAND]
.br
.B crew
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " completions " SHELL
.SH DESCRIPTION
Coldbrew is a Homebrew-compatible package manager written in Rust. It installs
prebuilt bottles, manages multiple versions side-by-side, and uses a shim-based
workflow to select versions based on project configuration.
.P
If no command is provided, crew prints the help text.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress non-error output.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS update
.B crew update
.br
Update the package index from Homebrew.
.SS search
.B crew search <query> [\-\-extended]
.br
Search for packages.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-extended
Show extended information.
.SS info
.B crew info <package> [\-\-format <text|json>]
.br
Show information about a package.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-format <text|json>
Output format (default: text).
.SS install
.B crew install [OPTIONS] <packages>...
.br
Install one or more packages (e.g., jq, node@22).
.TP
.B \-\-skip-deps
Skip dependency installation.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Force reinstall even if already installed.
.SS uninstall
.B crew uninstall [OPTIONS] <packages>...
.br
Uninstall one or more packages.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Remove all versions.
.TP
.B \-\-with-deps
Also remove unused dependencies.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts.
.SS upgrade
.B crew upgrade [OPTIONS] [packages]...
.br
Upgrade installed packages (all if not specified).
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Skip interactive selection.
.SS list
.B crew list [OPTIONS]
.br
List installed packages.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-names-only
Show only package names.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-versions <package>
Show versions for a specific package.
.SS which
.B crew which <binary>
.br
Show which package provides a binary.
.SS pin
.B crew pin <package>
.br
Pin a package to prevent upgrades.
.SS unpin
.B crew unpin <package>
.br
Unpin a package to allow upgrades.
.SS default
.B crew default <package>
.br
Set or show the default version for a package (e.g., node@22 or node).
.SS dependents
.B crew dependents <package>
.br
Show packages that depend on a package.
.SS init
.B crew init [\-\-force]
.br
Initialize a new coldbrew.toml in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Force overwrite if file exists.
.SS lock
.B crew lock
.br
Generate a lockfile from coldbrew.toml.
.SS tap
.B crew tap [OPTIONS] [user/repo]
.br
Add or remove taps (third-party repositories).
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-remove
Remove a tap instead of adding.
.SS space
.B crew space [command]
.br
Disk usage and cleanup commands.
.SS space show
.B crew space show [OPTIONS]
.br
Show disk usage and cleanup candidates.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-details
Show itemized details.
.SS space clean
.B crew space clean [OPTIONS]
.br
Cleanup old versions, cache, and other unused data.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Clean everything without prompts.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dry-run
Show what would be removed without deleting.
.SS link
.B crew link [OPTIONS] <package>
.br
Force-link a keg-only package.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Force overwrite existing files.
.SS unlink
.B crew unlink <package>
.br
Remove links for a package.
.SS doctor
.B crew doctor
.br
Check system for potential problems.
.SS completions
.B crew completions <shell>
.br
Generate shell completion scripts.
.P
Supported shells: bash, zsh, fish, elvish, powershell.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.coldbrew/
Coldbrew root directory.
.TP
.B ~/.coldbrew/config.toml
Global configuration file.
.RS
.IP "parallel_downloads = 8"
Maximum concurrent downloads (network-bound). Default: min(cpus * 2, 16).
.IP "parallel_extractions = 3"
Maximum concurrent extractions (CPU + disk). Default: min(cpus - 1, 4).
.IP "parallel_codesigning = 2"
Maximum concurrent codesign jobs (macOS only). Default: min(cpus, 4).
.IP "parallel_installs = 3"
Maximum concurrent install tasks. Default: min(cpus - 1, 4).
.IP "per_bottle_progress = false"
Show one progress bar per bottle download.
.RE
.TP
.B coldbrew.toml
Project configuration file in the current directory or a parent.
.TP
.B coldbrew.lock
Project lockfile generated from coldbrew.toml.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Update the package index:
.br
.B crew update
.TP
Install jq:
.br
.B crew install jq
.TP
Remove jq and any orphaned runtime dependencies without confirmation:
.br
.B crew uninstall jq --with-deps --yes
.TP
Pin a package:
.br
.B crew pin node
.TP
Generate a lockfile:
.br
.B crew lock
.TP
Generate completions for zsh:
.br
.B crew completions zsh
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR brew (1)
